platform/crd-ctrlr/README.md, before:

# Sdewan operator

The sdewan operator is developed under kubebuilder framework

## Deployment Guide

The API admission webhook depends on cert-manager so we need to install cert-manager first.

We have the image built and published at `integratedcloudnative/sdewan-controller:dev`. The openwrt
docker image we used for test is at `integratedcloudnative/openwrt:dev`. To use some other images,
we need to make changes in deployment yaml file.

After clone the repo, please change into directory `platform/crd-ctrlr`.
We are going to run command from this directory in the deployment guide.

The installation steps for Sdewan operator:
1. kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v0.11.0/cert-manager.yaml --validate=false
2. kubectl apply -f examples/sdewan-controller.yaml

Sample deployment of CNF:
1. Setup ovn networks
  ```
  kubectl apply -f examples/attach-network-ovn.yaml
  kubectl apply -f examples/ovn-net1.yaml
  kubectl apply -f examples/ovn-net2.yml
  ```
2. Launch CNF deployment. **NOTE:** CNF deployment is supposed to bind to a Node.
  For the sample cnf yaml, we bind it to master node. You can bind to other node by modifying the `nodeSelector`.
  ```
  kubectl apply -f examples/cnf-deployment.yaml # for kubernetes older than 1.16, please use cnf-deployment-older-than-1.16.yaml
  ```
3. Create rule for the CNF
  ```
  kubectl apply -f src/config/samples/batch_v1alpha1_mwan3policy.yaml
  ```
4. Verify that the policy is applied with the CNF by checking the last lines of mwan3 file. It should contains line `config policy 'balance1'`
  ```
  kubectl get pod |grep cnf1
  kubectl exec cnf1-6d759f9b4b-fbqrr -- cat /etc/config/mwan3
  # or you can merge these two commands: kubectl exec `kubectl get pod |grep cnf1 |head -n1 | awk '{print $1}'` -- cat /etc/config/mwan3
  ```


## Developer Guide

Project initialization(mostly, developers should not execute this step)
```
go mod init sdewan.akraino.org/sdewan
kubebuilder init --domain sdewan.akraino.org
```

To create new CRD and controller
```
kubebuilder create api --group batch --version  v1alpha1  --kind  Mwan3Policy
```

To run local controller without webhook(For test/debug purpose)
```
make install
make run ENABLE_WEBHOOKS=false
```

To build controller docker image
```
make docker-build IMG="integratedcloudnative/sdewan-controller:dev"
```

To generate yaml file for controller deployment
```
make gen-yaml IMG="integratedcloudnative/sdewan-controller:dev"
```

### Controller Implementation

![sdewan_dev](diagrams/sdewan_dev.png)

- One CRD one controller
- Controller watches itself CR and the Deployment(ready status only)
- Reconcile calls WrtProvider to add/update/delete rules for CNF
- CnfProvider interfaces defines the function CNF function calls. WrtProvider is one implementation of CnfProvider
- For the users, CNF rules are CRs. But for openwrt, the rules are openwrt rule entities. We can pass the CRs to OpenWRT API. Instead, we need to convert the CRs to OpenWRT entities.
- Finalizer should be added to CR only when AddUpdate call succeed. Likewise, finalizer should be removed from CR only when Delete call succeed.
- **As we have many CRDs, so there could be many duplicate code. For example, convertCrd, AddUpdateXX, and even reconcile logic. So we need to extract the similar logic into functions to reduce the duplicatioin.**

### What we have implemented

- CNF image built from HuiFeng's script. I have uploaded the image at `integratedcloudnative/openwrt:dev`
- The CNF sample deployment yaml file under sample directory (together with configmap and ovn network yaml files)
- A runable framework with Mwan3Policy CRD and controller implemented. It means we can run the controller and add/update/delete mwan3policy rules.

### What we don't have yet

- Add a watch for deployment, so that the controller can get the CNF ready status change. [predicate feature](https://godoc.org/sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/predicate#example-Funcs) should be used to filter no-status event.
- Implemente the remain CRDs/controllers. As all the controller logics are almost the same, some workload will be the extracting of the similar logic and make them functions.
- Add raw webhook to implemente the label based permission system
- Add validation webhook to validate CR

## References

- https://book.kubebuilder.io/
- https://openwrt.org/

Commit message:

Extract common functions and implement mwan3rule
As we will have several crd/controllers, they have almost the same
reconcile logic. So we extract the common logic and make them as
functions. Controllers call these functions instead of code duplication.

This patch extracts common functions and implements the mwan3rule
crd/controller.

Signed-off-by: chengli3 <cheng1.li@intel.com>
Change-Id: Ie9fe7ddcac6700605dbcb48ed9d88f96981b898a

platform/crd-ctrlr/README.md, after:

# Sdewan operator

The sdewan operator is developed under kubebuilder framework

## Deployment Guide

The API admission webhook depends on cert-manager so we need to install cert-manager first.

We have the image built and published at `integratedcloudnative/sdewan-controller:dev`. The openwrt
docker image we used for test is at `integratedcloudnative/openwrt:dev`. To use some other images,
we need to make changes in deployment yaml file.

After clone the repo, please change into directory `platform/crd-ctrlr`.
We are going to run command from this directory in the deployment guide.

The installation steps for Sdewan operator:
1. kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v0.11.0/cert-manager.yaml --validate=false
2. kubectl apply -f examples/sdewan-controller.yaml

Sample deployment of CNF:
1. Setup ovn networks
  ```
  kubectl apply -f examples/attach-network-ovn.yaml
  kubectl apply -f examples/ovn-net1.yaml
  kubectl apply -f examples/ovn-net2.yml
  ```
2. Launch CNF deployment. **NOTE:** CNF deployment is supposed to bind to a Node.
  For the sample cnf yaml, we bind it to master node. You can bind to other node by modifying the `nodeSelector`.
  ```
  kubectl apply -f examples/cnf-deployment.yaml # for kubernetes older than 1.16, please use cnf-deployment-older-than-1.16.yaml
  ```
3. Create rule for the CNF
  ```
  kubectl apply -f src/config/samples/batch_v1alpha1_mwan3policy.yaml
  ```
4. Verify that the policy is applied with the CNF by checking the last lines of mwan3 file. It should contains line `config policy 'balance1'`
  ```
  kubectl get pod |grep cnf1
  kubectl exec cnf1-6d759f9b4b-fbqrr -- cat /etc/config/mwan3
  # or you can merge these two commands: kubectl exec `kubectl get pod |grep cnf1 |head -n1 | awk '{print $1}'` -- cat /etc/config/mwan3
  ```


## Developer Guide

Project initialization(mostly, developers should not execute this step)
```
go mod init sdewan.akraino.org/sdewan
kubebuilder init --domain sdewan.akraino.org
```

To create new CRD and controller
```
kubebuilder create api --group batch --version  v1alpha1  --kind  Mwan3Policy
```

To run local controller without webhook(For test/debug purpose)
```
make install
make run ENABLE_WEBHOOKS=false
```

To build controller docker image
```
make docker-build IMG="integratedcloudnative/sdewan-controller:dev"
```

To generate yaml file for controller deployment
```
make gen-yaml IMG="integratedcloudnative/sdewan-controller:dev"
```

### Controller Implementation

![sdewan_dev](diagrams/sdewan_dev.png)

- One CRD one controller
- Controller watches itself CR and the Deployment(ready status only)
- Reconcile calls WrtProvider to add/update/delete rules for CNF
- CnfProvider interfaces defines the function CNF function calls. WrtProvider is one implementation of CnfProvider
- For the users, CNF rules are CRs. But for openwrt, the rules are openwrt rule entities. We can pass the CRs to OpenWRT API. Instead, we need to convert the CRs to OpenWRT entities.
- Finalizer should be added to CR only when AddUpdate call succeed. Likewise, finalizer should be removed from CR only when Delete call succeed.
- **As we have many CRDs, so there could be many duplicate code. For example, convertCrd, AddUpdateXX, and even reconcile logic. So we need to extract the similar logic into functions to reduce the duplicatioin.**

### What we have implemented

- CNF image built from HuiFeng's script. I have uploaded the image at `integratedcloudnative/openwrt:dev`
- The CNF sample deployment yaml file under sample directory (together with configmap and ovn network yaml files)
- A runable framework with Mwan3Policy CRD and controller implemented. It means we can run the controller and add/update/delete mwan3policy rules.
- We have extracted the common logics of controllers, and implemeted the second crd/controller with it

### What we don't have yet

- Add a watch for deployment, so that the controller can get the CNF ready status change. [predicate feature](https://godoc.org/sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime/pkg/predicate#example-Funcs) should be used to filter no-status event.
- Implemente the remain CRDs/controllers. As all the controller logics are almost the same, some workload will be the extracting of the similar logic and make them functions.
- Add raw webhook to implemente the label based permission system
- Add validation webhook to validate CR

### NOTEs

- We need controller-runtime version at least v0.6.0 to support `GenerationChangedPredicate` which is used to prevent CR status update trigering reconcile

## References

- https://book.kubebuilder.io/
- https://openwrt.org/
